- Java 11 introduced a new HTTP client that makes it
much easier to call an API with Java.
Here's an example of an API request
to Azure Cognitive Services that was written prior
to Java 11.
You can see there's quite a bit of code
and it required us to do things
like handle the IO for a request or a response body.
This often led to errors where we would forget to close
our resources.
Luckily the HTTP client makes it much simpler in Java 11.
It also supports HTTP/2,
so you can benefit from the performance enhancements
delivered by that new version of the protocol.
To see how it works, let's build a call
to another API within Azure Cognitive Services.
Within the Azure entities test class,
we'll create a unit test that calls
the named entities recognition endpoint
on the text analytics API.
This endpoint can extract people, places, and organizations
from the texts that we provide.
To help us out, I've added a number of constants
to the top of the class.
So you'll see the resource to my end point within Azure,
which you'll need to replace with your resource endpoint.
I've also added the path
to the named entity recognition endpoint,
as well as the name of the API Key and Content Type.
And I've included the application JSON MIME type.
Also, there's a string containing an example JSON document
that will pass to the API.
To make a call using the HTTP client,
we need to do four things.
First, we need to instantiate an HTTP client object.
So I'm going to go ahead and build a client,
and to do that we can use a static factory method
on the HTTP client class.
So you'll see the new HTTP client method.
Let's go ahead, we'll invoke that.
And now we're going to start building out an HTTP request.
To create the request, we can use a builder
found on the HTTP request class.
So here you see the new Builder method.
Let's call that.
And from here, we can start to construct the object
using the builder pattern.
The first thing we'll do is specify a URI.
So this is going to be the end point
that we would like to hit on Azure.
And to create that I'm going to use the create method
on URI class.
And then I'm going to pass in our Azure endpoint
and I'll concatenate that with the path
to the named entity recognition endpoint.
Okay, with all that in place,
we just invoke the build method
and that's going to create our HTTP request.
Now, once you have a request,
you want to use the client to send that to the API,
and then you're going to get a response back.
And the response contains a generic type
that indicates the type of the response body.
In this case, we're just going to convert it to a string.
To send the request,
we'll use the client.
And it has a send method, so that's pretty simple.
The first argument is the request.
And then the second argument is known as a body handler.
Let's talk about this for a second.
A body handler
will take the incoming bytes
from the response body and convert those bytes to an object.
And you'll see, within the body handlers available to us,
we can convert those bytes to various things.
In our case, we're just going to convert them to a string.
And there we have the response handled,
when we send the request over to the client.
Okay, the final thing that we'll do,
is actually work with that response.
In our case it's going to be pretty simple.
I'm going to go ahead and add an assertion,
to our unit test, that will check
if the status code on the response is 200,
which would indicate that it's successful.
And then just so we can see the response
I'm going to go ahead and send the body to the console.
Okay.
So that is the skeleton of how we make a request
with the HTTP client.
Now there's a couple things, that we need to add for Azure.
So the first thing we'll take a look at,
is the actual HTTP method used.
By default, it's going to be a get sent to the API.
The builder on the HTTP request allows us to send a put,
we can send a delete, or we can send a post.
So we can choose any HTTP method,
the Azure APIs require us to send a post.
So we're going to go ahead and use the post method.
And you can see that it's looking for us
to provide a body publisher.
Now, a body publisher is sort of the inverse
of a body handler.
It's going to take a Java object, and convert it to bytes
to be sent over the wire in the request body to the API.
So in our case, we're going to take a string
and turn that string to bytes,
to supply as the request body.
And you remember, that I had the example JSON document,
specified as a constant within our class.
So we'll just pass in that JSON,
that will be sent over to the named entity recognition API.
Okay, few more things.
We're going to add a header and to do that,
we invoke the header method on the builder.
And the first argument is the name of the header.
So in this case, it's going to be the content type header.
And then we're going to specify the value
of that header in the second argument.
In this case it's going to be the MIME type for JSON.
Okay, one more header to add,
and this is actually going to be the API key.
So we'll specify the name of the API key header,
and then you'll see that we have the Azure API key.
Let's talk about that a little bit.
That value is injected into our class as a string.
So here you can see it on line 21,
and I'm using the spring framework to do that injection.
It's reading an environment variable,
that I've specified on my system named Azure_API_key.
So, you'll have to set that up for this test to work.
So, just hit the window key, and then type environment
and select the first option that you see.
You'll be presented with the dialog that looks like this,
and you'll want to select
the environment variables button here.
And you can see that I've already established
the AZURE_API_KEY environment variable.
For you to set one up, just click on new
and then type in the name of the environment variable,
which will be AZURE_API_KEY.
And then here take your API key value from the Azure portal,
and place it into the variable value text box.
Once you have that set up, go ahead and hit okay.
I'm going to hit cancel because mine's already established.
And then the next thing you'll need to do,
is restart Eclipse so it loads that
environment variable into memory.
I've already done that.
So at this point my test is all set up to run.
I'm going to go ahead and make sure my test is saved,
then I just right click, run as J unit test.
And that will kick off our API call.
If we take a look at the console,
we can see that the call was made,
to the named entity recognition end point.
It picked out the Landon hotel as an entity.
And if we scroll to the right,
you'll also see it picked out the date 1952,
and then we'll also see the city of London was highlighted.
If we take a look at our J unit tests,
we can see that everything passed,
and that was our first successful API call,
to Azure cognitive services.
So in this lesson we covered many features
of Java's HTTP client.
And we're going to take a look at more of these,
as we expand and look at more of the end points
available on the text analytics API.